---
layout: post
title: Change of Employment
created: 1419840131
---

I joined with Sourcefire's Vulnerability Research Team (VRT) in July
of 2012, causing Laraine (my wife) and I to move from Utah to
Maryland. Last year saw the acquisition of Sourcefire by Cisco. This
year saw the rebranding of the VRT to Talos. Even with all the
changes, I've maintained my position as a core developer on the ClamAV
development team. I had the opportunity to work and get to know many
different and talented people within the VRT/Talos. I cherish each of
the relationships I've built there.

The time has passed by so quickly, it is truly unbelievable. As I was
packing my belongings, I kept reminiscing about the passionate
conversations I had in developing and architecting new projects for
ClamAV. I really am going to miss being a core developer. I'm glad
Cisco is proud of its opensource profile and will continue in the open
development of ClamAV.

I've had the opportunity to accept a new job at a company
headquartered in Annapolis Junction, MD. Though the company deals
mainly with government contracts, I will be working primarily on
internal projects, building their infrastructure and enhancing their
profile. I start in January of 2015. Unfortunately, I don't feel I can
publicly disclose with whom I'll be working or the projects on which
I'll be working. I'm extremely excited to start this new venture with
them.

My five- to ten-year goal is to get HardenedBSD set up as a 501(c)3
not-for-profit (or non-profit) organization so that donations can be
tax-deductible. I'm also hoping that the project will earn enough in
donations to pay for full-time development for one to two developers.

Lots of cool things are happening. I wonder what awesomeness lies
ahead.
